Add related work chapter (#10)
FLAGlab/bounded-const-generics-rust: document/chapters/related_work.tex

% !TEX root = ../main.tex
\chapter{Related Work} \label{chapter:related_work}

> 

Reviewer: ```
Im missing here a little "glue text" paragraph explaining what will happen in this section, and why are we focusing in these topics as the related work
```

> \section{The theory of dependent types}

Reviewer: ```
suggestion:
Use camel case for all titles (first letter of a word is capitalized)
```

\section{Dependently typed programming languages}

Given the correspondence between dependent type systems and propositional logic.
The first programming languages with dependent types were proof assistants, such

> as Coq and Agda, \cite{agda} which can be used to proof theorems automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as Coq~\cite{REF} and Agda~\cite{agda}, both of which can be used to proof theorems automatically.
```

However, such languages are not used outside the academic community nor to write
user or system oriented applications.

Haskell, being both a general purpose programming language and the de facto
language to explore and study new type systems in the academy, has provided the
foundation to study several formulations of dependent types in the form of new

> languages, such as Agda, Idris \cite{idris} and Cayenne, \cite{cayenne} or by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
languages, such as Agda, Idris \cite{idris} and Cayenne~\cite{cayenne}, or by
```

adding dependent types directly to the language. This last part is particularly
relevant to this work, given that Rust's nor Haskell's type system and compiler
were written to have dependent types.

C++ is the language that is most often compared to Rust because both languages
were designed to write performance oriented applications. Templates, which are

> C++ mechanism to achieve parametric polymorphism, allow not only types as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
C++'s mechanism to achieve parametric polymorphism, allow not only types as
```

> parameters but also constant values. \cite{templates} This idea is pretty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
parameters but also constant values~\cite{templates}. This idea is pretty
```

> similar to the one being implemented for Rust in the RFC 2000. Even then, manual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
similar to the one being implemented for Rust in RFC 2000. Even then, manual
```

memory allocation makes C++ a language far from being memory safe.  Where as
Rust is a completely memory safe language.    

\subsection{Dependent Haskell} 

The Glasgow Haskell compiler has certain features which makes Haskell almost a
dependently typed language. For example, datatype promotion allows to promote
algebraic data types to be promoted as kinds, and each term of such types to be 
promoted as a type itself. With these promotions, traditional polymorphism and
type families can be seen as a form of dependent types with some restrictions.

The addition of fully dependent types to Haskell's type

> system has been studied deeply by Gundry \cite{gundry} and subsequently by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
system has been studied deeply by~\citet{gundry} and subsequently by
```

Reviewer: Using natbib, you can add the names to the authors of a publication simply writing \citet{} instead of \cite

> Eisenberg. \cite{eisenberg}. Both authors add dependent types to Haskell by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\citet{eisenberg}. Both authors add dependent types to Haskell by
```

writing an intermediate language, the \textit{evidence} language for Gundry's

> work, and Pico for Eisenberg's work. These intermediate languages will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
work, and Pico for Eisenberg's work. These intermediate languages are
```

compilation targets for the dependent version of Haskell, and then the

> intermediate languages will be compiled to standard Haskell. Both Pico and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
intermediate languages are compiled to standard Haskell. Both Pico and the
```

> \textit{evidence} language are fairly similar to the calculus of constructions,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\textit{evidence} languages are fairly similar to the calculus of constructions,
```

the calculus on which Coq is based.

Refinement types, which are types with predicates,
are a different theoretical approach which provides to some extent capabilities
similar to dependent types, such as totality checking, program verification and
proof automation. LiquidHaskell is an extension to Haskell which allows

> refinement types. However, it requires an SMT solver during compilation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
refinement types. However, it requires an SMT solver during compilation~\cite{liquidhaskell}. 
```

> \cite{liquidhaskell} Thus, following a similar approach in Rust would have several performance issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, following a similar approach in Rust would have several performance issues.
```

\subsection{Templates in C++} 

C++ templates are widely used in the same way as
generic types: They avoid code repetition by parametrizing types and functions
over other types. However, templates are by themselves a powerful metaprogramming

> mechanism.  \cite{template_metaprogramming} For example, templates allow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mechanism~\cite{template_metaprogramming}. For example, templates allow
```

non-type parameters in high contrast to generics in languages such as Java.

There are some restriction with non-type parameters, they only can be constant

> integer values, null pointers, or pointers to objects and functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
integer values, null pointers, or pointers to objects and functions~\cite{templates}.
```

> \cite{templates} Being limited to types parametrized over constant values, C++

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Being limited to types parametrized over constant values, C++
```

is not a dependently typed language, neither it has the same capabilities as a
dependently typed language. But being able to parametrize code over constant

> values is a viable solution to some of the problems aforementioned in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
values is a viable solution to some of the problems aforementioned in
```
